Hello everyone.
I've got some good news in this lesson we will not be learning about yet another tool.
So far we've learned about get node NPM and web back.
And while knowing how to use these tools is an essential part of being a developer today.
You are not going to land your dream job just by knowing how to use these things at the end of the day
the thing that is going to make you stand out from all of the other developers.
Aside from having a good attitude is your ability to create amazing Web sites and in order to do that
you need to be able to write amazing CSX which is exactly what we are going to learn about in this lesson
we are going to begin building the travel agency Web site together.
And we are going to kick things off in this lesson by learning how to write super organized CSX.
Here are three key concepts that we will cover in this lesson.
Number one file architecture.
We want to organize our CSX code into multiple files and we want each file to be relatively small and
have a specific purpose.
Number two we will learn how to identify patterns in the design that we are working on and we will learn
by doing so is so important.
And number three we want to give ourselves a few rules or guidelines to follow as we are coming up with
class names and writing our CSF selectors.
All right.
It's time to get started.
Let's build a Web site together.
The first thing I want you to do is open up a web browser.
After you've done that I want you to go to the travel site folder.
You created this folder towards the end of the.
Get section in the course.
Let's go into this folder and then go into the app folder.
And I want you to drag the index thought H PML file on top of your web browser.
All right.
So this is our starter page.
You and I are starting with this exact same file and we are going to move forward together.
Currently this page is nothing but super simple raw h t AML with a few image elements added in there
is not even a single ounce of CSX being applied to this page.
The question becomes what is our goal.
Well let's imagine we work for a company and we're the developer.
And on our team there is a designer who sent us this file and the openness.
This is just one big giant image file.
But let's imagine that the designer wants the Web site to look like this.
Now as the developer it is our job to make this come to life with code.
So this is our goal.
This is how things should look.
There's only one way to move forward and that is to begin writing CSX to bring this design to life.
So let's go ahead and open the entire travel site folder in your text editor and let's open up our main
CSX file.
It lives in the app folder and then the assets folder the styles folder and there it is styles dot CSX.
All of this was just dummy or test code from our Web pack.
And post CSX lesson.
So let's go ahead and select everything in this file and delete it and let's begin with a bit of global
CSX that we want to trickle down or cascade down to every element on the page.
So let's target the body element and let's assign a global font.
The designer told me that they want to use a font named rubato and we will use a sans serif fallback
if that isn't available.
And let's set the default text color for the page to a dark gray.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now remember our HDMI web page is not actually pointing towards this CSX file.
So in order for this new code to actually be applied to the page we would need to start our web pack
command.
Right.
And then Web pack will watch us and recreate our bundled file whenever we save changes to a source file
like this.
So right now do this with me jump into your command line and run the following command with me NPM run
dev
all right that task is now running.
So let's go over to the browser and refresh and we see that we are now using the rubato font.
And it's a dark gray.
If we scroll up to the top of the page we see that this image here is so large that it's forcing the
browser to scroll horizontally.
Let's write a global CSX rule to fix that.
So let's target all images on the page and give them a max width of 100 percent.
And let's tell it to use a height of autumn.
Go ahead and save that and refresh the browser.
That looks better.
OK.
What do we want to work on next.
To answer that let's look at the design file that the designer sent to us for now.
I don't think there are any other global styles that we would want to trickle down to every element
on the page.
I think our next step is to simply choose a unique part of this design and begin building it.
So for the time being let's skip this very top header navigation bar and let's choose this banner area.
This image of the water with text layered on top as the first thing that we will build.
All right.
If we hop back to the browser we can see there is the image.
And here is the text that we want to sit on top of the image.
Let's take a look at this section of the page in our text editor.
So back in the index dot HDMI whole file.
If we scroll down a bit we see this area with a class of large hero.
So let's go ahead and write CSX that targets the class of large hero that will turn this into this.
All right.
So in our CSX file we could go down to the bottom and create a new rule targeting large hero.
But if we think back to the key concepts of this lesson we remember that we wanted to pay attention
to file architecture which means we don't want to just dump all of our CSX within this one file so let's
delete this and this is actually where post CSX and imports come into play.
So follow along.
I want you to find the main travel site folder and within the app folder and then within the assets
folder and within the styles folder I want you to create a new folder named modules.
OK and then back in our text editor within the styles folder here is the new modules folder.
Let's create a new file within this new folder and name it underscore large dash hero dot CSX.
There's nothing special about this file name.
It was my opinionated choice to begin the file with an underscore in the programming world.
If you begin a file name with an underscore you are indicating to other developers that that file is
considered a partial file which just means you probably won't use this file in and of itself but instead
you will import this file into some other file.
So for example if we had a bit of CSX within this file for the time being let's just say position relative
how do we import this large hero CSX file into our main style sheet.
It's as simple as using the at symbol and then saying import quotes and then we want to drill into the
modules folder that we just created and then we list out the large hero file.
We actually do not need to include the DOT CSX and be sure to include a semicolon to save you a bit
of frustration.
Make sure you include the import line at the top of your file.
Not down at the bottom.
Now it's important to point out that import is a native CSX feature but we don't want the web browser
to have to download multiple CSX files.
Instead we want web pack and post CSX to see this import line and actually replace this line with the
contents of this large hero file and we can very easily setup post CSX to do that.
Let's do that right now by hopping over to the command line.
Go ahead and press control C to stop Webb pack from watching us.
And now we can run a command and we want to install a post CSX package so lets type npm install the
name of the package that we want is post CSX dash import.
And be sure to include dash dash save Dev go ahead and hit enter and once that download completes we
then want to go leverage that package.
So to do that we need to hop into our web Park dot config dot J.S. file towards the top of this file.
Remember we created this array named post CSX.
Plug ins.
So let's do this at the very start of this array.
So maybe right at the beginning of this first require line.
Let's add a new line and let's require n so require parentheses in the name of the package was post
CSX dash import.
Be sure to include a comma at the end of that line.
Okay then let's go ahead and save this file and then also in my case I need to be sure to save my style's
dot CSX file and now to make sure that this import is working just as a test.
Let's go into our large hero file and just to make it abundantly clear that it's working let's add a
line and say color should be purple all right.
Let's give that a save and then let's start up our web pack task again.
So in the command line let's run NPM run Dev
okay.
Then if I go to the browser and refresh if we scroll down a bit here's that large hero area.
Cool.
It's purple now that we know our import is working we don't actually need color purple so let's delete
that and let's jump back into our main styles dot CSX file.
Why don't we take things one step further and move these to global rules into their own file dedicated
to global rules.
So go ahead and copy these rules to your clipboard and let's create a new folder that sit side by side
the modules folder that we created just a moment ago and let's name this new folder base within our
text editor.
Let's create a new file in that base folder and let's name this file underscore global dot CSX and let's
go ahead and paste in those rules that we wrote earlier.
Go ahead and save this file and back in our main style sheet up on the very top line.
Let's create another import drill into the base folder that we just created and grab the global file.
Perfect.
So now our main CSX file doesn't contain any CSX itself.
Instead this main file is like a recipe pointing towards other ingredients ingredients that each have
their own specific focused purpose.
This will let us keep our code super organized and let me show you one last reason why I love the way
that post CSX handles imports.
You might remember earlier in the course I mentioned a popular CSX package named normalized CSX.
We haven't used normalized CSX yet but we did install it when we were first learning how to use NPM.
So for example if you open up the package dot Jace on file that sits in the route of our project folder
under dependencies you will see normalized CSX.
Now currently that means that the CSX for that package lives within the very base of our project in
the node modules folder within this normalized CSX folder.
There is the style sheet so you might think that it's tricky to navigate to this folder in order to
import normalize but watch out.
Easy post CSX makes this within our main style sheet.
We can just say import.
And then we'd literally just type the name of the NPM package normalized dot CSX semicolon go ahead
and hit save.
And if we go back to the web browser before I refresh I want you to pay attention to this tiny white
margin you see on the left and right side of the browser.
So if I refresh you can see it's gone and we can think normalized dot CSX for that normalize is an alternative
to CSX resets it adjusts the styles of certain elements in an effort to make all web browsers render
things more consistently normalizes is excellent I recommend using it on all of your projects.
All right.
So that was a crazy seven minute tangent on file architecture.
Let's get back to the actual task at hand.
We want to write CSX for this part of the design the image with text on top of it.
And if we jump back to our text editor we created a file dedicated to that sole purpose.
So here we are in the large hero CSX file.
Let's get to work.
So the first thing that I want to do is position this text so that it sits on top of the image.
So to do that let's head over to our h t AML.
Here is the large hero area.
Now this image can stay where it is but if we want to position this text to sit on top of the image
we want to wrap these elements these heading in paragraph elements in their own unique div so that we
can position that div as a whole instead of positioning each one of these elements independently.
So let's create a div sandwich.
Here's the beginning.
Let's indent these lines and then let's close that new div and let's give this div a unique class name
so that we can target it with our CSX.
Let's go with large hero underscore underscore text content.
If you are wondering how I chose this exact name and what the underscores mean don't worry we will get
to that in due time.
But for now let's go ahead and save this file and then hop into our CSX file and say large hero underscore
underscore text content and we want to write CSX that positions the text on top of the image.
So if we say position absolute top zero left zero that will position the text in the very top left corner
of the image.
But we want it to be centered both horizontally and vertically centering it horizontally is as simple
as saying width 100 percent and then text align center
centering the content vertically is a bit trickier.
Every developer has their own specific way of doing it.
Let me show you mine so we can start out by changing the top value to 50 percent.
So now the top edge of our text div which is right about here is center aligned vertically with the
overall container element.
But our content certainly isn't.
So to fix that we just need to pull this content up a bit.
Specifically we want to pull it up about half of its own height so to do that we can use a property
named transform.
And then we can leverage a function named translate why this will let us position an element vertically
relative to itself.
So for example if we say 100 percent that will push the content down.
However Tall the content is.
So for example if this div of text is about one hundred and ninety pixels tall it will be pushed down
one hundred and ninety pixels.
So let's set this value temporarily to zero.
If this is the content neutral positioning we just want to pull it up about half of its own height.
So to pull it up we can use a negative value and let's say 50 percent excellent.
Now some of you might be yelling at the screen right now and wondering why we didn't just apply this
image as a CSA as background image if we would have done that instead of having this image be an actual
image element we wouldn't have had to deal with all of this positioning nonsense.
Well that's a great question both routes definitely have their advantages.
I decided to use a real image element instead of a background image because in a few lessons from now
we will be learning about responsive images and I feel that the advantages that responsive images bring
to the table tip the pros and cons scale in favor of this route.
But there is no right or wrong way to overlay text on top of an image.
This is just one way to do it.
Now having said that I think this is a good stopping point for this video but not for this lesson.
This is actually a two part lesson because there is a lot to digest.
You will remember back at the beginning of this video we mentioned that there are three key points to
keeping our CSX very organized and in this video part one we spent a lot of our time on file architecture
in the next video.
Part two of this lesson we will focus on how to identify patterns in our design and why doing so well
let us write better code.
We will also learn about a few rules and guidelines that we want to follow when we come up with class
names and also when we write our CSF selectors.
And I hope it goes without saying that we will also continue to build the travel agency website together.
So this lesson will continue when I see you in the next video.